Data Scientist Challenge

LivingSocial

January 7, 2013

Introduction

As a means of assessing a candidate‘s overall ability to both analyze data and

communicate e↵ectively, the following challenge has been devised. The challenge

is broken into two parts. The first part asks that you perform an analysis on

some data, and the second part asks that you design a study to test a hypothesis.

Complete as much or as little as youd like; those who provide the most thor-
ough insight and analysis will be given preference. Answers to both questions

should be written in a formal, professional style as reports (not slide presenta-
tions). When you are finished, submit all materials (including any code, graph

images, notes, method descriptions, extra thoughts, etc.) as well as a current

resume to data.challenge@livingsocial.com.

While you could no doubt spend quite a bit of time on these tasks, it is

designed so that qualified candidates should be able to complete both tasks

within two or three hours. If you find that you have spent more than a few hours

working, you may certainly simply submit what you have (partial responses will

be reviewed).

Part 1: Data Analysis

You should have received a file named data.csv along with these instructions

(if not, you can download from http://bit.ly/lschallengedata). There are

3, 000, 000 rows; each row represents a user and a summary of her purchasing

information. The first column is the day the user account was created, the

second is the number of days between the user signing up and first purchasing

(a 0 means they joined and bought on the same day), and the third column is

the total number of purchases the user has made at the time the data file was

created. 1

Your task is to analyze the data and describe any meaningful insights you

find (this task is open ended on purpose). Your analysis should be as thorough

as possible. Feel free to be creative in your exploration and to document the

1The data in the file has been especially crafted (randomly generated) for this challenge

and is not real data.

1

process you used in your investigation. Pretty graphs are certainly welcome,

but make sure there is su"cient textual analysis as well.

Part 2: Experimental Design

Your second task is to come up with an experimental design to answer one of

two possible questions. You are welcome to complete the question/option which

fits your expertise best.

You may use any data you would reasonably expect a company like Living-
Social to have, in order to set up your experiment. The design should be written

as a formal proposal and should include a section on the methods you intend on

using for its evaluation. A sample of some of the criteria you will be evaluated

on include:

• The clarity of the stated aims, hypotheses, and expected results

• The appropriate generation of your user sample

• Your test or model evaluation methods

• The extent to which you thoroughly investigate possible outcomes and

conclusions

Please be as specific as possible in your design. For instance, make sure that

each of your design decisions have associated explicit reasoning.

Option 1: Purchase incentive

One challenge we face at LivingSocial is in trying to find the best methods to

motivate non-purchasing users to make their first purchase. One tactic is to

simply give away a certain amount of money to be used toward a first purchase

(generally with an expiration date not long after issue). Before giving away any

money for deals, though, we would like to determine the results we can expect

by running a test first. The goal of the test is to determine whether or not

giving $5 worth of deal bucks (money that can be used only to purchase deals

at LivingSocial) to users who have never purchased can successfully motivate

them to make a first purchase. Your task is to design this test.

Option 2: Deal targeting

LivingSocial has customers in a number of cities. Imagine that the company is

currently o↵ering one of its line of services, Takeout and Delivery, in some of

these cities, and it plans to introduce the service to a few additional cities. Your

task is to come up with a predictive model to find which LivingSocial customers

in these additional cities would be interested in Takeout and Delivery.

If you have any questions, feel free to email data.challenge@livingsocial.com.